Kubernetes(K8s) notes
---------------------
intro:-
   Kubernetes is a production-grade, open-source platform that orchestrates the placement
   (scheduling) and execution of application containers within and across computer clusters.

1.Kubernetes, is open source platform that automates linux container operations.
2.It eliminates many of the manual processes involved in deploying and scaling containerized applications.
3.We can cluster, Groups of Hosts running containers, and K8s helps us
  easily and efficiently manage those clusters.
4.K8s was originally developed and designed by engineers at google.
5.Google generates more than 2 billion container deployments a week-all powered by an internal platform: Brog.

what can you do with Kubernetes?
-----------
1.Orchestrate containers across multiple hosts.
2.Make better use of hardware to maximize resources needed to run your enterprise apps.
3.Control and automate application deployment and updates.
4.Mount and add storage to run stateful apps.
5.Scale containerized application and their resources on the fly.
6.Health-check and self-Heal your apps with auto placement, auto restart, auto replication, and autoscaling.
7.Declaratively manage services, which guarantees the deployed
  applications are always running how you deployed them.
8.Kubernetes, however, relise on other projects to fully provide these orchestrated service.
  a)Registry --Docker or atomic etc..
  b)networking --Open switch
  c)Telemetry -- heapster, kibana, hawkular, and elastic.
  d)security -- LDAP, SELinux, RBAC, and OAUTH with multy-tenacy Layers.

K8s terminology:
----------------
1.Master : the machine that controls Kubernetes nodes. This is where all task assignments originate.
2.Node: this machine perform the requisted, Assigned tasks. The k8s Master controls them.
3.Pod :A group of one or more containers deployed to a single node. 
       a. all containers in a pod share an IPC, hostname, and other resources.
4.Replication controller/ReplicaSet : this controls how many identical copies of a pod should be running somewhere on the cluster.
5.Kublet: this service runs on nodes and eads the container manifests and ensures the defined containers are started and running.(this runs worker node)
6.Kubectl : This is the command line configuration tool for kubernetes.

https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/glossary/?fundamental=true

Kubernetes competitors:
 1.AKS (
 2.GKE (global Kubernetes)
 3.DOcker
 4.Redhat OpenShift
 5.AWS ECS/EKS
  note this things not a competitors this was runs a sometimes backend runs in k8s

Kubernetes Components:
--------------------------
master
A)Kube-apiserver
  1.Expose the kuberneties API
  2.the API server is the front end for the kubernetes controle plane.
  3.kube-apiserver is designed to scale horizontally
B) etcd
   consistent and highly-available key value store used as K8s'backing store for all cluster data.
C)Kube-scheduler
     watches newly created pods that have no node assigned, and selects a node for them to run.
D)kube-controler-maneger
    Logically, each controller is a separate process, but to reduse complexity, they are all complied into  a single 
    binary and run in a single process.

  a)Node controller: Responsible for noticing and responding when nodes go down.
  b)Replication Controller:Responsible for maintaing the currect number of Pods for every replication controller obeject in the system.
  c)Endpoint Controller : Populates the endpoint object (that is, joins servers & Pods).
  d)Service account & Token Controller : create default accounts and API access token for namespaces.

e) cloud contoller-manager
  a.Node controller : for checking the cloud provider to determain if a node has been deleted in the cloud after it stops responding
  b.Route Controller: For Setting up routes in the underlying cloud infrastructure
  c.service controller : For creating updating and deleting cloud provider load balencer
  d.Volume Controller : For creating, attaching, and mounting volumes, and interacting with the cloud provider to orchestrate volumes

Node Components :
1) Kubelet
 a. An agent that runs on each node in the cluster. It makes sure that containers are running in a Pod.
 b.the kublet takes a set of podspecs that are provided through various mechanisms and
    ensures that the containers described in thse podspecs are running and healthy.
 c. The Kubelet doesn't manage containers which were not created by k8s.
2)kube-proxy
 a. Kube-proxy is a network proxy that runs on each node and maintains network rules on node in our cluster

3)container runtime
  a. The container runtime is the software that is responsible for running containers.
  b.kubernetes supports several container runtimes : Docker, containerd, cri-o, rktlet and any implimentation of the kubernetes CRI
-----------------------------------
3. Addons
  1.DNS
    a.kubernetes clusters should have cluster DNS
    b.cluster DNS is a DNS server, in addition to the other DNS server (s) in your environment,
       which servers DNS records for kubernetes services
    c.Containers started by kubernetes automatically include this DNS server in their DNS serches.
 2.Web UI (Dashboard)
   a.web-based UI for Kubernetes clusters.
 3.Container Resource Monitoring
    records generic time-series metrics about containers in a central database, and provides a UI for browsing that data.
 4.Cluster-level logging
  A cluster-Level Logging mechanism is responsible for saving container logs to a central log store with search/browsing
    interface.
------------------------------------------------------
K8s Installation :

1. Install and setup kubectl
  a.curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/
    `curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/
